Components proposal (#51)
OAI/sig-workflows: versions/1.0.0.md

<a name="workflowId"></a>workflowId | `string` | **REQUIRED**. Unique string to represent the workflow. The id MUST be unique amongst all workflows describe in the Workflows document. The `workflowId` value is **case-sensitive**. Tools and libraries MAY use the `workflowId` to uniquely identify a workflow, therefore, it is RECOMMENDED to follow common programming naming conventions.
<a name="workflowSummary"></a>summary | `string` | A summary of the purpose or objective of the workflow.
<a name="workflowDescription"></a>description | `string` | A description of the workflow. [CommonMark syntax](https://spec.commonmark.org/) MAY be used for rich text representation.
<a name="workflowInputs"></a>inputs | `JSON Schema` | A JSON Schema 2020-12 object representing the input parameters used by this workflow.

> <a name="workflowSteps"></a>steps | [[Step Object](#step-object) \| [Reference Object](#reference-object)] | **REQUIRED**. An ordered list of steps where each step represents a call to an API operation or to another workflow. If a Reference Object is provided, it MUST refer to a Step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a name="workflowSteps"></a>steps | [[Step Object](#step-object)] | **REQUIRED**. An ordered list of steps where each step represents a call to an API operation or to another workflow.
```

> <a name="workflowSteps"></a>steps | [[Step Object](#step-object) | [Reference Object](#reference-object)] or `string` | **REQUIRED**. An ordered list of steps where each step represents a call to an API operation or to another workflow. If a Reference Object is provided, it MUST refer to a Step.

Reviewer: Some formatting issues here. I would state as follows as below if proceeding but I'm not sure if we decided to hold back from referencing _steps_ for now?
```suggestion
<a name="workflowSteps"></a>steps | [[Step Object](#step-object) \| [Reference Object](#reference-object)] | **REQUIRED**. An ordered list of steps where each step represents a call to an API operation or to another workflow. The list can use the [Reference Object](#referenceObject) to link to steps that are defined at the [Workflows Object's components/parameters](#component-object). If a Reference Object is provided, it MUST refer to a Step.

```

Author: Yeah I thought we were knocking out Steps in favor of just using Workflows as the unit of reuse. My pet store example shows how to do that.

<a name="workflowId"></a>workflowId | `string` | **REQUIRED**. Unique string to represent the workflow. The id MUST be unique amongst all workflows describe in the Workflows document. The `workflowId` value is **case-sensitive**. Tools and libraries MAY use the `workflowId` to uniquely identify a workflow, therefore, it is RECOMMENDED to follow common programming naming conventions.
<a name="workflowSummary"></a>summary | `string` | A summary of the purpose or objective of the workflow.
<a name="workflowDescription"></a>description | `string` | A description of the workflow. [CommonMark syntax](https://spec.commonmark.org/) MAY be used for rich text representation.

> <a name="workflowInputs"></a>inputs | `JSON Schema` | A JSON Schema 2020-12 object representing the input parameters used by this workflow. Some of the input parameters may be [References](#reference-object) to the [[Component Object]](#component-object)'s `inputs` field.

Reviewer 2: If this proposal is trying for the same feel as OAS 3.1, then you don't need to talk about Reference Objects here.  Reference Objects are used  _outside_ of Schema Objects, where `$ref` is not otherwise defined.  The OAS 3.1 Schema Object is just a regular 2020-12 schema, and `$ref` is already defined with behavior specific to schemas (in terms of how adjacent keywords are handled).

Author: Hmm ok, I can take out that sentence. I'll leave the example in though.

    - $statusCode == 503
```

#### Component Object

Holds a set of reusable objects for different aspects of the Workflows Specification. All objects defined within the components object will have no effect on the workflow unless they are explicitly referenced from properties outside the components object.

##### Fixed Fields

Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---|---
<a name="componentInputs"></a> inputs | Map[`string`, JSON Schema Object] | An object to hold reusable JSON Schema objects to be referenced from workflow inputs.
<a name="componentParameters">parameters</a> | Map[`string`, [Parameter Object](#parameter-object)] | An object to hold reusable Parameter Objects

> This object MAY NOT be extended with [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This object _MAY_ be extended with [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions).

```

All the fixed fields declared above are objects that MUST use keys that match the regular expression: `^[a-zA-Z0-9\.\-_]+$`. The key is used to refer to the input or parameter in other parts of the Workflow document.

> Field Name Examples:

Reviewer: I'm not sure what the field name examples are representing here. We don't have this in other sections

Author: It's just a regex for the keys in the Maps - happy to remove this section but I figured it'd be a good idea.

```
User
User_1
User_Name
user-name
my.org.User
```

##### Component Object Example

```json
"components": {
  "inputs": {

>     "storeId": {

Reviewer 3: These examples seem to be backwards no?  Isn't input a JSON Schema and parameter has the the name, in value property?

Author: Hmm - components.inputs is a Map of string to JSON Schema object, so I'm reasonably sure that piece is right (in this case `storeId` is the key). Not sure I understand the problem with parameter.

    }
  },
  "parameters": {
    "pagination": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "page": {
          "type": "integer",
          "format": "int32"
        },
        "pageSize": {
          "type": "integer",
          "format": "int32"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Reference Object

**Note -** This section is derived from the [OpenAPI Specification, v3.1](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/main/versions/3.1.0.md#referenceObject), and is intended to be implemented in similar fashion.

A simple object to allow referencing other components in the OpenAPI document, internally and externally.

The `$ref` string value contains a URI [RFC3986](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986), which identifies the location of the value being referenced.

See the rules for resolving [Relative References](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/main/versions/3.1.0.md#relativeReferencesURI).

##### Fixed Fields
Field Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
<a name="referenceRef"></a>$ref | `string` | **REQUIRED**. The reference identifier. This MUST be in the form of a URI, with a prefix of `#/components/inputs` or `#/components/parameters`.

> <a name="referenceValue"></a>value | `string` | The value of the Input or Parameter which by default SHOULD override that of the referenced component.

Reviewer 2: This is a dramatic departure from how `$ref` is used in every other specification I've seen, and will cause problems with anyone trying to use standard tooling.  In particular, if this is done with `$ref` inside of schemas, you will not be able to use standard draft 2020-12 JSON Schema implementations, which was the main reason that OAS 3.1 adopted 2020-12 in full.

I'm kind of dropping in here without context- is there somewhere I can read up on the reason for this usage?   don't see any discussion of it in the referenced issue.

Author: Probably makes sense to discuss at our meeting this coming Wednesday, can you make it? Also, might be worth taking a look at the pet store example which I've marked up in this PR, that should at least convey the intention of this use of $ref. But certainly open to hearing improvements.

Reviewer 2: I'll try to make the meeting.  My main concern here is that this proposal seems to be a bit disconnected from the general history and usage of `$ref`.  Support for `$ref` has been a challenge in the OAS tooling community, and has often been addressed by having standalone tools that understand `$ref` which are used in conjunction with OAS-specific tools.  Adding substantially different behavior to `$ref` will break many, many things.

This object _MAY_ be extended with [Specification Extensions](#specificationExtensions).

All the fixed fields declared above are objects that MUST use keys that match the regular expression: `^[a-zA-Z0-9\.\-_]+$`. The key is used to refer to the input or parameter in other parts of the Workflow document.

Field Name Examples:

```
User
User_1
User_Name
user-name
my.org.User
```

##### Component Object Example

```json
"components": {
  "inputs": {
    "storeId": {
      "name": "storeId",
      "in": "header",
      "value": "$inputs.x-store-id"
    }
  },
  "parameters": {
    "pagination": {
      "type": "object",
      "properties": {
        "page": {
          "type": "integer",
          "format": "int32"
        },
        "pageSize": {
          "type": "integer",
          "format": "int32"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### Reference Object

**Note -** This section is derived from the [OpenAPI Specification, v3.1](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/main/versions/3.1.0.md#referenceObject), and is intended to be implemented in similar fashion.

> A simple object to allow referencing other components in the OpenAPI document, internally and externally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A simple object to allow referencing other components in the Workflows document.
```
